README.md, before:

# go-te

![go-te icon](docs/icon-256.png)

`go-te` is a Go terminal emulator library that models a VT100/VT220/VT520-style screen. It is a faithful port of the Python [pyte](https://github.com/selectel/pyte) test suite with additional coverage from the ESCTest2 conformance tests. The library focuses on deterministic, in-memory screen state suitable for screen scraping, TUI rendering, and playback.

## Highlights
- **Pyte fidelity**: The Go implementation follows pyte semantics and test behavior 1:1.
- **ESCTest2 coverage**: Comprehensive CSI/OSC/DSR behavior is validated through upstream tests.
- **Multiple screen variants**: Base, diff (dirty tracking), history (scrollback), and debug screens.
- **Alternate buffer support**: Primary/alternate buffers with cursor save/restore.
- **SVG rendering**: Export screen buffers to SVG for screenshots or reports.

## Installation

```bash
go get github.com/rcarmo/go-te
```

## Quick Start

```go
package main

import (
	"fmt"

	"github.com/rcarmo/go-te/pkg/te"
)

func main() {
	screen := te.NewScreen(80, 24)
	stream := te.NewStream(screen, false)

	_ = stream.Feed("Hello, world!\n")
	_ = stream.Feed(te.ControlCSI + "31m" + "Red text" + te.ControlCSI + "0m")

	for _, line := range screen.Display() {
		fmt.Println(line)
	}
}
```

## Core Concepts

### Screen
`Screen` is a 2D grid of `Cell` values that hold character data and attributes. It tracks cursor state, modes, margins, and metadata like window titles.

```go
screen := te.NewScreen(80, 24)
lines := screen.Display()
```

### Stream / ByteStream
`Stream` consumes UTF-8 strings and dispatches parsed escape sequences to a screen. `ByteStream` accepts raw bytes and handles UTF-8 decoding.

```go
stream := te.NewStream(screen, false)
_ = stream.Feed(te.ControlCSI + "2J") // clear screen

byteStream := te.NewByteStream(screen, false)
_ = byteStream.Feed([]byte("hello"))
```

### HistoryScreen
`HistoryScreen` adds a scrollback buffer and paging controls.

```go
history := te.NewHistoryScreen(80, 24, 200)
stream := te.NewStream(history, false)
```

### DiffScreen
`DiffScreen` tracks which rows have changed since the last update.

```go
diff := te.NewDiffScreen(80, 24)
stream := te.NewStream(diff, false)
```

### DebugScreen
`DebugScreen` writes JSON-encoded event data for diagnostics and testing.

```go
debug := te.NewDebugScreen(os.Stdout)
stream := te.NewStream(debug, false)
```

## SVG Rendering

The SVG exporter renders a screen buffer into a self-contained SVG image.

```go
opts := te.DefaultSVGOptions()
svg := te.RenderScreenSVG(screen, opts)
```

You can customize colors and fonts by setting fields in `SVGOptions`.

### Example Output

The repository includes an SVG snapshot of Copilot running inside tmux (with a green status bar) generated by `scripts/capture_copilot_tmux_svg.sh`:

![Copilot in tmux](docs/copilot.svg)

## Testing

```bash
go test ./...
```

The project maintains a complete audit of the pyte and ESCTest2 ports. See `docs/TEST_AUDIT_CHECKLIST.md` for the canonical mapping between upstream tests and Go counterparts.

## SVG Capture (tmux + Copilot)

A standalone script captures a tmux pane running Copilot and renders the result to SVG. It expects `tmux`, `go`, and a Copilot CLI (`gh copilot` or `copilot`).

```bash
./scripts/capture_copilot_tmux_svg.sh
```

Useful environment variables:

- `COPILOT_CMD`: command to run inside tmux (default: `copilot`).
- `TERMINAL_WIDTH` / `TERMINAL_HEIGHT`: tmux client size (pane height is one row less when status is enabled).
- `CAPTURE_DELAY`: seconds to wait before capture (when not attaching).
- `ATTACH_SESSION=1`: attach to tmux interactively before capture.
- `OUTPUT_SVG`: output path for the generated SVG.
- `INCLUDE_STATUS=1`: include a rendered tmux status bar row.
- `STATUS_BG` / `STATUS_FG`: ANSI color names for the status bar background/foreground.
- `STATUS_TEXT`: status bar text (tmux format expansion supported).

The script uses `scripts/render_svg.go` to parse the captured pane output and export SVG via `te.RenderScreenSVG`.

## WASM Usage

`go-te` can be compiled to WebAssembly using either the Go toolchain (`GOOS=js GOARCH=wasm`) or TinyGo, making it suitable for browser-based terminal playback or screenshot tooling.

## Documentation

- `docs/TEST_AUDIT_CHECKLIST.md` — test mapping status
- `docs/PYTE_PORTING_CONVENTION.md` — pyte porting rules
- `docs/ESCTEST_PORTING_CONVENTION.md` — esctest2 porting rules
- `docs/pyte-test-coverage.md` — behavior coverage summary
- `docs/SPEC.md` — implementation notes and API scope

## License

See `LICENSE` for details.

Commit message:

Enhance README with additional references
Updated README to include link to ESCTest2 and webterm.

README.md, after:

# go-te

![go-te icon](docs/icon-256.png)

`go-te` is a Go terminal emulator library that models a VT100/VT220/VT520-style screen. It is a faithful port of the Python [pyte](https://github.com/selectel/pyte) test suite with additional coverage from the [ESCTest2](https://github.com/ThomasDickey/esctest2) conformance tests. The library focuses on deterministic, in-memory screen state suitable for screen scraping, TUI rendering, and playback, and is used in [`webterm`](https://github.com/rcarmo/webterm) to provide live terminal previews.

## Highlights
- **Pyte fidelity**: The Go implementation follows pyte semantics and test behavior 1:1.
- **[ESCTest2](https://github.com/ThomasDickey/esctest2) coverage**: Comprehensive CSI/OSC/DSR behavior is validated through upstream tests.
- **Multiple screen variants**: Base, diff (dirty tracking), history (scrollback), and debug screens.
- **Alternate buffer support**: Primary/alternate buffers with cursor save/restore.
- **SVG rendering**: Export screen buffers to SVG for screenshots or reports.

## Installation

```bash
go get github.com/rcarmo/go-te
```

## Quick Start

```go
package main

import (
	"fmt"

	"github.com/rcarmo/go-te/pkg/te"
)

func main() {
	screen := te.NewScreen(80, 24)
	stream := te.NewStream(screen, false)

	_ = stream.Feed("Hello, world!\n")
	_ = stream.Feed(te.ControlCSI + "31m" + "Red text" + te.ControlCSI + "0m")

	for _, line := range screen.Display() {
		fmt.Println(line)
	}
}
```

## Core Concepts

### Screen
`Screen` is a 2D grid of `Cell` values that hold character data and attributes. It tracks cursor state, modes, margins, and metadata like window titles.

```go
screen := te.NewScreen(80, 24)
lines := screen.Display()
```

### Stream / ByteStream
`Stream` consumes UTF-8 strings and dispatches parsed escape sequences to a screen. `ByteStream` accepts raw bytes and handles UTF-8 decoding.

```go
stream := te.NewStream(screen, false)
_ = stream.Feed(te.ControlCSI + "2J") // clear screen

byteStream := te.NewByteStream(screen, false)
_ = byteStream.Feed([]byte("hello"))
```

### HistoryScreen
`HistoryScreen` adds a scrollback buffer and paging controls.

```go
history := te.NewHistoryScreen(80, 24, 200)
stream := te.NewStream(history, false)
```

### DiffScreen
`DiffScreen` tracks which rows have changed since the last update.

```go
diff := te.NewDiffScreen(80, 24)
stream := te.NewStream(diff, false)
```

### DebugScreen
`DebugScreen` writes JSON-encoded event data for diagnostics and testing.

```go
debug := te.NewDebugScreen(os.Stdout)
stream := te.NewStream(debug, false)
```

## SVG Rendering

The SVG exporter renders a screen buffer into a self-contained SVG image.

```go
opts := te.DefaultSVGOptions()
svg := te.RenderScreenSVG(screen, opts)
```

You can customize colors and fonts by setting fields in `SVGOptions`.

### Example Output

The repository includes an SVG snapshot of Copilot running inside tmux (with a green status bar) generated by `scripts/capture_copilot_tmux_svg.sh`:

![Copilot in tmux](docs/copilot.svg)

## Testing

```bash
go test ./...
```

The project maintains a complete audit of the pyte and ESCTest2 ports. See `docs/TEST_AUDIT_CHECKLIST.md` for the canonical mapping between upstream tests and Go counterparts.

## SVG Capture (tmux + Copilot)

A standalone script captures a tmux pane running Copilot and renders the result to SVG. It expects `tmux`, `go`, and a Copilot CLI (`gh copilot` or `copilot`).

```bash
./scripts/capture_copilot_tmux_svg.sh
```

Useful environment variables:

- `COPILOT_CMD`: command to run inside tmux (default: `copilot`).
- `TERMINAL_WIDTH` / `TERMINAL_HEIGHT`: tmux client size (pane height is one row less when status is enabled).
- `CAPTURE_DELAY`: seconds to wait before capture (when not attaching).
- `ATTACH_SESSION=1`: attach to tmux interactively before capture.
- `OUTPUT_SVG`: output path for the generated SVG.
- `INCLUDE_STATUS=1`: include a rendered tmux status bar row.
- `STATUS_BG` / `STATUS_FG`: ANSI color names for the status bar background/foreground.
- `STATUS_TEXT`: status bar text (tmux format expansion supported).

The script uses `scripts/render_svg.go` to parse the captured pane output and export SVG via `te.RenderScreenSVG`.

## WASM Usage

`go-te` can be compiled to WebAssembly using either the Go toolchain (`GOOS=js GOARCH=wasm`) or TinyGo, making it suitable for browser-based terminal playback or screenshot tooling.

## Documentation

- `docs/TEST_AUDIT_CHECKLIST.md` — test mapping status
- `docs/PYTE_PORTING_CONVENTION.md` — pyte porting rules
- `docs/ESCTEST_PORTING_CONVENTION.md` — esctest2 porting rules
- `docs/pyte-test-coverage.md` — behavior coverage summary
- `docs/SPEC.md` — implementation notes and API scope

## License

See `LICENSE` for details.
